NMS-15045: Update Replacement Tokens doc (#5884)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/deep-dive/events/event-tokens.adoc

= Replacement Tokens

> You can use replacement tokens (event substitution tokens) in event descriptions, log messages, operator instructions, and automatic actions.

Reviewer: I feel like the only thing that is missing here is something that defines what a replacement token (or a token) is.  I have an understanding from what is here but something like "A replacement token is a way to substitute additional relevant data into an event" or something... I don't know what the exact definition should be but I think it would help.

Reviewer 2: We could modify the introductory text to be more specific with the straightforward definition and then the more detailed info about the process.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use replacement tokens (event substitution tokens) to insert additional relevant information into event descriptions, log messages, operator instructions, and automatic actions.
```

The tokens are replaced by values from the event when its text is generated.
Not all events will have values for all tokens, and some tokens refer specifically to information available only in events derived from SNMP traps.

NOTE: Parameter descriptions use percentage signs (`%`) as delimiters to mark a replacement variable.
If a literal percentage sign appears in your description, you must escape it with another percentage sign (for example, `'testUrl \https://www.opennms.org/ReportSection?filter=FOO_BAR_BAZ%%20eq%%20%%27101%%27'`).

== Tokens

You can use the following replacement tokens in {page-component-title}:

[options="autowidth"]
|===
| Parameter | Description

| %eventid%
| Event's numeric database ID.

| %uei%
| Event's unique event identifier.

| %source%
| Source of the event (which {page-component-title} daemon created it).

| %descr%
| Event description.

| %logmsg%
| Event's log message.

| %time%
| The time at which the event occurred.

| %shorttime%
| The time at which the event occurred, formatted as `DateFormat.SHORT`.
This provides a completely numeric date and time.

> | %dpname%
> | Formerly used for the ID of the Minion that the event was received on.
> This placeholder is deprecated and resolves to an empty string.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

| %interface%
| IP interface associated with the event, if any.

| %foreignsource%
| Requisition name for the node identified by `%nodeid%`, if available.

| %ifindex%
| The interface's SNMP `ifIndex`.

| %interfaceresolve%
| Performs a reverse lookup on the `%interface%` parameter and returns its name, if available.

| %service%
| Service associated with the event, if any.

| %severity%
| Event's severity level.

| %snmphost%
| The host of the SNMP agent that generated the event.

| %id%
| Event's SNMP enterprise OID.

| %trapoid%
| Event's full trap OID.

| %idtext%
| Event's decoded (human-readable) SNMP enterprise OID.

| %ifalias%
| The interface's SNMP `ifAlias`.

| %generic%
| Event's generic trap-type number.

| %specific%
| Event's specific trap-type number.

| %community%
| Trap's community string.

| %version%
| Trap's SNMP version.

| %snmp%
| The SNMP information associated with the event.

| %operinstruct%
| Event's operator instructions.

| %mouseovertext%
| Event's mouse-over text.

| %tticketid%
| Event's trouble ticket ID, if available.

| %primaryinterface%
| The primary interface IP address for the node identified by `%nodeid%`, if available.
|===

> CAUTION: If you use multiple Minions in one location, it can break the alarm lifecycle for some {page-component-title} features.

Reviewer 2: Curious about the caution, specifically line 119. If `%dpname%` is deprecated, do we want to suggest using it? It resolves to an empty string as well, so replacing it with an empty string seems redundant?

If we keep this, suggest the following:

```suggestion
CAUTION: Using multiple Minions in one location can break the alarm lifecycle for some {page-component-title} features.
```
With the other syntax, it wasn't clear what was breaking the alarm cycle.

> CAUTION: If you use multiple Minions in one location, it can break the alarm lifecycle for some {page-component-title} features.
> To avoid this problem, replace the `%dpname%` attribute with an empty string by setting `org.opennms.netmgt.eventd.cleardpname=true` in `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/opennms.properties.d/events.properties`.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

A node may have additional hardware details stored in {page-component-title}.
You can access these details using the `%hardware%` token (for example, `%hardware[token]%`, which returns the value of the `token` field from the node's hardware inventory).

== Parameter tokens

Many events store additional information in their parameters (see <<deep-dive/events/event-definition.adoc#ga-events-anatomy-of-an-event, Anatomy of an event>>).
These parameters may start as SNMP variable bindings (varbinds).

You can access event parameters using the `%parm%` token, which can take several forms:

[options="autowidth"]
|===
| Example   | Description

| %parm[all]%
| Space-separated list of all parameter values in the form of `parmName1="parmValue1" parmName2="parmValue2"`, and so on.

| %parm[values-all]%
| Space-separated list of all parameter values (not including their names) that are associated with the event.

| %parm[names-all]%
| Space-separated list of all parameter names (not including their values) that are associated with the event.

| %parm[<name>]%
| Value of the `<name>` parameter, if it exists.

| %parm[##]%
| Total number of parameters (integer).

| %parm[#<num>]%

> | Value of parameter number `<num>` (one-indexed).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Value of parameter number `<num>` (1-indexed).
```

| %parm[name-#<num>]%

> | Name of parameter number `<num>` (one-indexed).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Name of parameter number `<num>` (1-indexed).
```
